Use Snyk in the CLI
Scan projects in your local or remote machine
1
Install Snyk CLI
Executables
npm
Homebrew
Scoop
Use curl or GitHub Releases to download a standalone executable (macOS, Linux, Windows) of Snyk CLI for your platform.

curl https://static.snyk.io/cli/latest/snyk-win.exe -o snyk.exe
Move the executable or add the executable’s location to your PATH as desired
2
Authenticate your machine
Authenticate your machine to associate it with your Snyk Account

snyk auth
snyk auth
Opens a browser window with prompts to log in to your Snyk account and authenticate your machine. No repository permissions are needed at this stage.
Thank you for authenticating your machine. You can now start scanning for issues.
Want to run this on a remote machine? Configure for CI 
3
Scan for security issues
Before scanning:

Navigate into your code’s directory: cd ~/projects/my-project/
Refer to the instructions that follow on specific content types: open-source packages, source code, containers and IaC (Infrastructure as Code).
Open-source packages
Source code
Containers
IaC
To scan your open-source packages for vulnerabilities ensure all dependencies are installed or there is a supported lockfile.

Scan your projects locally

snyk test --all-projects --org=3b4a65d2-c715-48de-9e49-3fe5ca94a758
Or continuously monitor your projects and view the latest snapshots in the Web UI

snyk monitor --all-projects --org=3b4a65d2-c715-48de-9e49-3fe5ca94a758
snyk test
Scans your source code for open-source vulnerabilities and license issues.
snyk monitor
Creates projects in your Snyk account to be continuously monitored for open-source vulnerabilities and license issues. View the latest snapshots and scan results in the Web UI, on the Projects page.
--all-projects
Auto-detects all projects in the working directory.
--org=<ORG_ID>
Specifies the Organization ID to run Snyk commands for a specific organization. It influences where new projects are created after running the monitor command. Find the Org ID on your Organization’s Settings page (Settings > General).
View all CLI commands
View docs
Snyk Studio is here. Secure new AI-generated code and clear your existing security debt. Learn more here!
