Setting up GNS3 on Proxmox involves several steps. Let's break them down into a comprehensive guide:

Step 1: Install GNS3 Client
Open your web browser and navigate to GNS3.com.
Click on the "Free Download" button and choose the download for your operating system.
Create an account if you don't have one already.
Download the GNS3 installer for your operating system.
Install GNS3 along with the additional programs like Wireshark and NP-CAP.
Step 2: Setup GNS3 Server on Proxmox
Download the GNS3 VM for Proxmox from the GNS3 website.
Extract the downloaded contents, obtaining an OVA file.
Transfer the OVA file to your Proxmox server using SCP command in the terminal:
ruby
Copy code
scp GNS3_VM.OVA root@<IP_Address_of_Proxmox>:/tmp
Enter the password of your Proxmox server.
SSH into your Proxmox server or use the Proxmox UI to access the shell.
Navigate to the temp folder:
bash
Copy code
cd /tmp
Extract the contents of the OVA file:
Copy code
tar xvf GNS3_VM.OVA
Import the GNS3 server into Proxmox:
php
Copy code
qm importovf <VM_ID> GNS3_VM.OVF <storage_drive_name>
Replace <VM_ID> with a free VM ID number, and <storage_drive_name> with the name of the storage drive you wish to keep the virtual disks on.
Step 3: Configure GNS3 Server Settings in Proxmox
Head over to Proxmox UI, click on the imported GNS3 VM, and navigate to "Hardware."
Click "Add" and then "Network Device." Choose the virtual bridge connected to your network and click "Add."
Adjust memory allocation:
Click on the memory field and then "Edit" to allocate more memory to the VM.
Optionally, check the "Advanced" box to enable ballooning and adjust minimum memory.
Adjust processor settings:
Click on the processor field and then "Edit" to allocate more cores to the VM.
Change the type to "host" to ensure GNS3 appliances will start properly.
Click "OK" to save the changes.
Step 4: Start GNS3 Server
Start the VM.
Open a console window to it and note the IP address and port where it's running.
Step 5: Connect GNS3 Client to GNS3 Server
Open the GNS3 client.
Enter the IP address and port of the GNS3 server.
Optionally, configure authentication if desired.
Step 6: Add Appliances to GNS3
Click "File" and then "Import Appliance" to add appliances.
Visit the GNS3 marketplace on the GNS3 website.
Download the appliance files you want to use (e.g., PFsense).
Import the downloaded files into GNS3.
Drag the imported appliances onto the workspace to use them.
Step 7: Troubleshooting and Support
If you encounter issues, refer to the Discord link provided in the video description for support.
By following these steps, you should be able to set up GNS3 on Proxmox successfully.
